[Music]
What's been going on? What are we drinking? Summer in Pittsburgh.
We've been away for a little. Drinking the Rhine Geist knowledge.
Knowledge? It's an Imperial IPA? It's fantastic.
Sounds pretentious. It's real pretentious. I've got a fury. This one's pretentious. It's got a really fancy label.
Fury brewing series of sweet karate moves. Jesus Christ.
But it's a New England style IPA, which is the cloudy one, Senna. I like this. It's pretty, it's okay.
That can is a little hard to look at. It's way over the top. It's got like a fucking gumbie.
Oh, that's a fucking night man, dude. From "It's Always Sunny." Oh, Jesus Christ. I didn't even realize that.
Okay. Now it's redeemed itself a good bit. Okay. I fuck with that.
That is a night man. Showing you his karate moves. I dig it. You've got a Laquat.
I do. I haven't had the extra fancy shit in a while, so I got a couple cases of the cherry lime.
However you pronounce it. Sirelimon? I don't think I've had it either. I didn't even try that one. It's a good.
It's my favorite. Oh, I'm not even trying to cherry flavor. The fuck is wrong with you?
Well, I just only fucked up. You don't like a nice slice of cherry pie?
I don't like cherry flavoring. Okay. Like fake cherry.
I got shitty cherry popsicle. You don't like those? No, no. I usually go for the grape. I like fake grapes.
Really? I like grape. Oh, fake grapes. All my life, dude. Like, fake grapes. I've never been a fan of grape, but I'll try anything that's cherry.
Anything bread, dude. Any candy. Jolly rancher, starburst, whatever. I want that cherry.
Jolly rancher, there's only one. Sour apple. You're crazy.
This watermelon cherry sour apple? I could fuck with those three for a long time.
I don't eat anything except the cherry. I'll buy a variety bag and the rest will just sit there forever.
I'll just eat all the cherries. Once the reds are gone, I'm like, "Alright, this is garbage."
You can just buy a bag of the red, right? Yeah, sometimes I can't find them, though.
So I get a variety and just to get the reds and get a slingshot and then cherry jelly bellies.
That's where it's at, dude. Those are fucking good.
You don't like it. No, not for me. No, I'm surprised, dude. I thought that was like a standard, like, everyone.
Different structure, different folks, man. Yeah, I feel you.
I just turned my modular on today for the first time in months listeners. It was fucking fun.
You weren't using it for your most recent set. Nope. In any way, just virus, blow-felt, rhythm, TR8S.
Nice. TV3. That was it. Cool. Yeah. How you digging the TR8S live?
It's good. It's way better than the original. They made it way more complicated to switch individual instruments for each one.
I don't like that. Sounds great. Worked fine. No issues alive. Yeah, I like it. It's good.
I haven't even played with the samples on it yet. Haven't tried that shit at all, but I'm looking forward to getting a little further into it.
Paired well with the rhythm filled in those gaps kind of well, just for the standard.
Clubby techno shit that I wanted to kind of pepper in.
Are you still on the original Mark I and Riddemartu? Or did you get that too? Yeah, I'm kind of like...
I'm a little scared about some of the stuff I've heard about the Mark II and issues, and I just really like the Mark I.
The knob, the macro knob on the Mark II, is pretty appealing to me, but...
Oh yeah, and I actually backed it up for the first time ever. Now that they've made that latest update, you can get the samples out of the rhythm for the first time.
So that was cool. Yeah, I kind of missed mine.
Messing with that sequencer reminded me of some of the things that I miss about it. You know what I mean?
Oh, the Erica. Yeah. Because it's very similar. How it's all set up. The menus and everything.
But while we're on the topic of electron...
Many updates. And heat Mark II.
Oh, I knew we had to get it back.
That actually slipped in my mind when I was making my list of shit to talk about, but it just popped back.
Talking about the Riddem. I don't even know the difference is.
They're like... isn't one? It's like a slightly different screen, and I think it's going to be better for overbridge or some shit.
I can't remember, but seeing the backlash on every internet forum has just been a fun spectator sport.
So we were noticing that there's no difference.
Oh, dude. People are pissed. Like, Mark I hasn't even been out for like two years.
Right.
People that have been like, you know, just getting them in our hands and they're being told that this is end-of-life hardware.
You should get a Mark II.
Right. It's more expensive for no fucking reason. Like the Mark I was kind of, in my opinion, a rip to begin with.
It's a lot of money. Yeah. How much is the Mark II?
It's like 850 or something. I can't remember. I mean, it was already a lot.
Yeah. For a stereo single effect kind of thing. Well, it has multiple effects, but you're going to process one of them at a time kind of.
And for stereo distortion pedals, that's pretty damn pricey. Right.
You get a lot of the stuff that does similar things.
Seems popular. I don't know. The Mark II thing, they've always been bad at Mark IIs. They've always like... I don't know.
It just seems like such a minimal shift to qualify as a Mark II, you know.
Now, there's supposed to be something under the hood that's different.
I mean, is it one of those things where maybe like eventually it'll be different because the hardware has been expanded?
I think they said, yes, it's supposed to be better hardware or something, but...
Sounds better. That's one of their first bullet points. Sound better.
Did you fuck up the last one?
If it came down to it, after hearing how it sounds like and playing with one,
I would still pick a Sherman, even though the Sherman isn't stereo.
Right. You know what I mean? It just, I don't know.
I feel like the filters sound way better, way more versatile.
You can't save presets and shit like you can on the heat, but...
For me, distortion is usually like you dial it in and then you leave it to fuck alone.
You know what I mean? I don't know.
I will give them some props and that they released all those updates at once, and at least like...
The rhythm update worked. I used it live. I've had no issues with it.
So at least like props to doing the testing and at least like...
Let's not give you this quasi beta test kind of version and let you stumble through it.
It's been solid.
Honestly, I'd love to get, I was thinking about this yesterday, I'd love to get like a new inbox rhythm,
mark one if I had infinite money and just like put it back.
They're like, all right, there's my backup.
Right, so never fucks up. That's how much it's like kind of key for me.
That's what I did with my ES1, but my backup cost $100, so it was not much of a huge investment,
but I want this thing that I can load all the shit I've been working on in case something catastrophic happens,
but when you're talking about something, it's that pricey.
I have two pyramid sequences right now for that very reason.
Like I'm the second one used. I actually have to ship my first one back again to actually get the touchpad fixed.
But I was working on that set and I was like, fuck this, I'll sell it again or something,
but I'm gonna like, I'm not gonna have this fuck up on me halfway.
I'm gonna have to like scramble to get something going.
Because you had a lot of stuff running off that pyramid.
Oh yeah.
I mean, just standing there watching you that whole time in the creepiest way possible.
That's what I was just, you know, like I was hiding in the shadows and like, it was weird.
Like the club had like these sort of like Venetian blinds and I was able to like separate two of them
and look at you so you could just see my two eyeballs.
I don't know why they set that up for me, but they did.
So I was able to creep on you the whole time and I could tell like so much was running off the pyramid
and that shit the bed.
Yeah.
It would have been try to pivot to set the clock up differently really quickly and run the rest of the stuff,
the drum machines and the TB3 because it would have been tanked.
I was almost gonna bring the backup in the car just in case that one fucked up.
Because it was wiggling like the power supply and it was starting to glitch out and I could reset it
and I was like, oh shit, this is another thing I'm gonna tell them about.
And I think it was the actual power supply that came with my first one and the used one that I got
actually has a better one and I could jiggle it and it wouldn't fuck up at all.
But yeah, I love the thing as far as sequencing goes.
Like it's that thing works with my brain perfectly.
And someone who hasn't used it, it looked like wizardry and sorcery.
I fucked up like twice that I can remember where I was like, ooh, unmuted because I was using program changes
on the blowfeld.
So if I unmute the wrong track it would switch the patch, which was bad.
And the one time I caught it like real quick before it did it.
But that was the only time I like fucked it up.
So the practice helped the constant endless practice.
But yeah, pyramid definitely.
I'm using the older version of the OS because the newest beta one, it seems like you were saying
with the Digitech like old projects won't load and I was just like,
I'm gonna check that out later if I can.
But hopefully they get it all straightened out.
So you're gonna be recording or anything of that sort?
There is, I just got it yesterday actually.
And the levels are all good.
Yeah.
I definitely like I was listening to it just to kind of get feedback to myself.
I rushed through some stuff too quickly because it just seems like I'll get bored up there.
And I'll switch it.
And per day when I talked about this earlier, sometimes it's like, oh, well,
I was never wanting you to switch something up.
It was always something else coming along the line.
But some of the times I feel like I just got bored and like stopped something and people
were really liking the acid lines and the TV three stuff and I would like go back to that quick.
So the sequencing of it was a little disappointing.
But everything else I was happy with like were mixed levels and everything.
They were good, no overdriven anything.
So yeah, the setup worked.
I'm gonna keep rolling with that the next time if there, whenever that happens.
The PA just sounded.
This is like the shout out to the Hot Mouse PA.
It's fucking incredible.
I missed.
[laughter]
Because it wasn't until like two fifteen or something.
Yeah, it's pretty late.
Yeah, I was starting there.
I was like, well, time's nickel and all of them.
He was like, two.
And I was like, fuck.
I just worked all day as an album.
Try.
But then like by 11 p.m. that day, because I had slept for like four fucking hours and
I was supposed to do a shift the next day.
I was like, I can't fucking do it.
But I was really hoping that there would be a recording.
I'm glad to hear that there is.
Yeah, yeah.
I'll send it along.
We had planned to do the disco nap thing and then just like.
Yeah, that was my original crown and didn't do it.
And it was like getting in the car to go over.
I was like, oh man, I hope I got it in me.
I think like once I got out and like breath of fresh air like took like a B12 and like,
I can do this.
But I have to admit, I was a little worried.
I was like, we fucked this up.
Yeah, I was worried about just being able to run it all at two in the morning because
it's still like, I will say today the practice that we got in.
I forgot I even got the Intel Gel dual ADSR until I reopened the case.
I was like, oh yeah, you got that.
That's a good choice.
And it was using it today, just having the release on sliders and being able to like,
oh, I'm going to open the sound up real quick with the slider.
That's fucking solid module and digging it.
Yeah, I missed the envelope actually.
And it has like basically like two different modes.
It's got three.
It's got the, well, it's got cycle on and off and then you've got three speeds right in
envelope, which is cool.
Fuck, because I've got the quadra, right?
Which is nice.
And I end up using all four of the envelope generators.
I was like, I don't know.
I did ADSRs looking pretty nice.
See, I was getting straight up planar jealousy.
Fuck, it's like, it's the only thing I kind of want right now as a planar in addition.
And joysticks are pretty nice for sound design.
Yeah, yeah, they are.
And the planar too, I think, has got some interesting new features.
The recording thing, I think, is probably the most like whiz-bank thing they added.
Yeah.
I don't know if it's really necessary.
That's how I feel.
I don't know if I need that.
Especially with the X and Y taking CV.
Yeah, then what do you need to record for to send it to sequence?
And that's what I do.
I mean, not for what we were doing today.
Because you can even have X and Y CV on it and still use the joystick and move it around.
Right.
And then the X and Y CV gets applied on top of its current position.
The recorder just seems superfluous.
Like when does it start and stop?
I don't know.
It opens up questions.
I don't want to answer.
[LAUGHS]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Those knobs on the gristle-izer, those are the original?
No, no.
The red ones are different and they were a much larger knob.
That's what I thought.
I don't like those as much.
And I think this also helps me remember which one is the knob that is more destructive.
It's basically the criteria for what's going to be red and which is just black.
It's a lot of knobs on there.
Yeah.
Yeah, there is.
Yeah, you've got the full-size knobs and these tiny little guys.
A lot of ins and outs on that thing.
Yeah.
The one that has the crazy ins and outs is the generator.
It's basically like an LFO.
And a lot of this comes based on the wave folding that's built into it.
There's a lot of synchronization.
You can actually send it tracks one volt per octave and it also takes a sync in.
And the fold itself has its own controls, this gain and offset and frequency.
And those are also C-viable.
And then the output is either just the raw ramps or pulse and then just the normal folded
output.
So that's why this bank here is just kind of nuts with inputs and outputs.
And the preamp has this big guitar input jack.
But this stuff here is in this tiny square here.
That's all based on the envelope follower.
So that's--
So as follower two?
Yes, yes it does.
And there's how do you load up the hamburger lady preset?
The what now?
Yeah, and there's a sensitivity on the table.
You use the follower a lot?
No, no I don't.
Because I've plugged the cello in just to get a sense of what it was like because I don't
even have a guitar to test the guitar input.
And just screwing with it I was able to see what it does but honestly no, I've not done
much with the follower.
I think if I was using this more with a guitar it would probably be really useful.
Yeah.
My throbbing gristle joke fell flat.
I got it.
I just--
It took me a second.
Yeah, no I was in the zone of explanation.
Yeah, no.
I was trying to throw your curve all there.
And you successfully did.
And so these are the inputs and outputs for the filter.
They're basically what you would expect.
There's an input, an output, and then the two CVs.
One is actually normal to the generator.
And then finally the last thing over here is they call the modulator.
But it's a VCA.
And it's similarly what you would expect.
Inputs, outputs, and CV control.
So those are reasonable numbers of jacks.
So is there any audio rate sound generation on it?
Like can you kick that generator up to like audio rate level or is it mostly for like accepting
sources and processing stuff?
Real low end.
I think it goes up to like 400.
But it doesn't give very high above that.
And even then you are limited to a very limited number of shapes.
So it goes from saw to reverse saw.
And then the wave folder itself will give you like a little bit of dimension on top of
that.
But it doesn't have a huge variety of different shapes.
But I mean between all of these different controls, you can actually make some cool stuff.
And you got the super limited version where everything is on one panel.
It's one module.
That stuff has a bunch of things that are like normalized.
They are.
And they actually, this is a panel, like you said, this is one panel instead of being all
four modules, individual.
So there's like a sort of like dotted line that shows you what's normal and what isn't.
And then you can just break them if you need to, if you plug something in.
But all the normalizations make sense.
You go from master output goes directly into the input on the filter.
The fold output of the generator goes into the CV input, CV2 input for both the filter and
the VCA.
How does it sound Dave?
It does.
Sounds fucking amazing.
Yeah, huge fan.
I could plug it in and make some sounds.
Like I said, I knew I was going to run out of ways to say dirty.
Grimey.
There's a little bit of grime.
There's a little bit of filth.
Nasty.
Soiled.
Very soiled.
Are we done?
Do we got more?
Shit.
I don't have to top my head.
Other synonyms for filthy?
I'm thinking.
Yeah, I'm thinking.
Disobedient.
Impear.
Yeah, impure.
Litterbox.
It's actually the hot one.
It's actually the highest level of purity.
So if you were to break it up into four modules, what are the two that you would pick?
If you had to pick only two of them.
What I thought was going to be the most interesting one, the one I was only going to get at first,
was the filter.
Honestly, I don't think I would get that.
If I only could get two, it would be the preamp and the modulator, the preamp and the VCA.
They add the most teeth to things.
The modulator in particular is pretty versatile.
We can get kind of clean.
I wouldn't want it to be my only VCA.
But between the bias, the dirt, and it has its own drive, dialing all of that in just takes you away.
It takes me away to another place.
If I had to boil it down to one, I would probably just be the modulator.
It's a pretty versatile module.
The preamp, though, even though I'm not using the guitar input, just having it also has a lot of character to everything that you're doing.
I'm throwing gristle ran pretty much everything through those.
That's my understanding.
Focal processing.
Violin.
Shit.
Yeah.
Even just like I said, just running the cello through it, it just turned, it just destroyed it.
We could be running this episode through it and get, you know, see what it's like.
You're saving that for your next live performance, right?
Exactly.
Yeah.
When you do acapellas.
Yes.
But like in my idea of what singing is like, which is not that dissimilar from like King Diamond, it's like a really dodgy falsetto.
So hopefully the gristleizer will be able to handle that.
I think it can.
What about feeding it back into itself?
Ah!
Fucking amazing.
Yeah, all those ins and outs, that's like the first thing that's popping in my head.
I just want to route things back into itself.
See what happens.
Such an expanded version of like what I've always known as the gristleizer.
You know what I mean?
I mean, I should have it on the filter, but like it's only just because it didn't meet my expectation.
The more I use it, the more I really do like it.
Kinda reminds me of the spectral divisator, the other future sound system model that I had.
It just, it's squelches, but for lack of a better term, it's like a, it's like a slow burn squelch.
I'm not going to be making 303 bass lines on it.
No, no, no, not at all.
It's, it, it, it, it, it burns, it's like a burning squelch.
But like it starts like just a little bit, and then you know, you got like a quarter of a turn of the knob before it becomes unbearable.
It doesn't just like collapse right away.
I want to hear sounds of it now.
I can turn it on.
Turn it on.
Turn it off.
What are you hearing right now?
Okay, so that is just a, like a real simple oscillator going into the preamp through everything into the output.
So you're getting the preamp, the filter, and the modulator, and also some pretty high modulation from the generator itself at a pretty high frequency.
Let me, it sounds like a bad day.
So this is, this will be skipping the, the generator and the filter.
[ [
]
So that's about as close as it's going to get to being clean.
[
]
So that's like a little bit of dirt.
[
]
All right, so that's with the modulator, a little bit of dirt, and then a lot of the CV modulation from the generator.
It's preamp in here.
[
]
All right, so that's what the, the generator slowed down a little bit.
And the other thing too is these lights dictate, give you an idea of how much, like how strong the input signal is.
Oh, what do you got there?
Is that for input?
Yeah.
[
]
(zapping)
- Did you get this little graphic block?
- A stew top, I didn't know what left.
- I did, left for a while.
- Yeah, and now it's back.
- Oh, shit.
I sold it for, shit, one was it, a few months back.
I sold it because I wanted the space, because it's big.
- Yeah.
- And I used this space that I freed up with
to get more drum modules and things like that,
but I've done some serious restructuring,
and I realized I had the space for one again,
and somebody was selling one used on muffs
for pretty damn cheap.
Now, when I first bought it,
I bought it as a drum module in mind.
You know what I mean, which it's pretty good for, obviously.
But now with all the drum modules that I have,
I realize I don't need that as a drum module.
Like I bought it again more as a lo-fi texture maker.
- No.
- You know what I mean?
I don't know how else to describe it
other than like a noise box.
You know what I mean?
- Yeah, yeah.
- A little chip tune noise machine.
I think it excels in that,
and I like processing it through things
like the rain maker and things like that.
- No.
- Those two modules together,
I can get like endless,
grimy, strange sounds out of.
Yeah, I didn't think anyone would notice.
- Oh, you can't get over on me.
I do notice those two transients,
some kind of waiting for your feedback on.
Future retro transients, that is.
- Well, those are a little bit more obvious
'cause the gold plating,
this really stands there.
- They're the mark.
- The mark.
- The fuck looking at them.
They are probably the ugliest modules I've ever owned.
(laughing)
No, Joe, and I even replaced the knobs on them
like I tend to do,
but the knobs were these gigantic like
50s refrigerator style dials.
- Oh, God.
- Silver on top of the gold.
- Ah.
- Yeah, it was terrible.
I was like, these knobs are going like.
- No, do you think they were being hilarious?
We could make something nice, but let's be funny.
- I don't know 'cause Future retro,
all their stuff has always looked kind of,
their aesthetic choices have never been that great.
- I like the excess a little, the gray one.
- Oh, that's the only one.
- Everything else is like, fuck.
- Fuck, what did I used to have?
I used to have that acid box
- The revolution. - The revolution.
- The revolution. - Yeah, yeah.
- God damn it's a dead thing.
- Oh, yeah, it looks like a giant UFO.
- They made a glow in the dark one too.
- It's like, 'cause you know,
why would you want to sequence in a straight line, dude?
Like, let's make it in a circle.
- That's what the squares do, man.
- Yeah, yeah.
- You gotta think outside of the back.
- Can't make it that way.
- I love that machine though.
I just hated the look of it.
- Yeah.
- And it's the same applies to these future retro,
transient pluses.
Like, can't stand to look at them,
but they are pretty damn cool.
- Do you hear that magpie?
Just saying.
- Yeah, if there was an alternative panel
that came out for these,
I would swap in an instant for sure.
- So they're like, they're sample based,
but you can fuck 'em up, kind of, right?
They have like some effects on board and stuff.
- They have a lot on board, yeah.
More than I realized, they get pretty deep.
But yeah, it's a sample based module.
It does all of its processing 16-bit,
but then it goes through a 12-bit DAC
to give it a little bit of like that old sampler grime.
- Yeah, yeah.
- And you can tweak that down to like one bit, if you want.
- Oh, sweetly shit.
- Yeah. - That's cool.
- Plus it has on board distortion and some mode,
it's called Compounder, which is supposed to be
like also reminiscent of older gear.
Almost everything in there is tweakable.
- Oh nice.
- It has on board filters, two on board modulation oscillators,
which can function at LFO or audio rates.
- Shit.
- And you can map these to pretty much anything in there.
The sample selection, the filter that's on board,
you can get real crazy with it.
Supposedly, you can also change the playback speed
from like plus one octave down to minus five octave.
- That's awesome.
- Yeah, I haven't figured out how to do that yet.
I haven't gotten that deep into it,
but like it's pretty wild.
And everything in it, you save it as an instrument,
which is basically a preset.
It's a set of parameters, all the modulation stuff,
everything gets saved in there.
And you can have up to 256 of these instruments on there.
So, I'll be into that.
- Yeah, that's pretty hefty.
- It all gets stored on the card.
You can have up to, I think 600 samples or 16 megabyte,
which is kind of small.
So you're not gonna be putting anything long in there.
It's all gonna be like short one shot type stuff,
but it does have weird options for looping also.
Like if you could stick an amen break in there,
then tweak like start end points and weird shit like that.
It's interesting, way deeper than I expected.
- So there's, I saw that there was a screen.
What is the screen actually showing you?
- Everything that's in the menu.
Okay, so there's total five knobs.
Top two are just CV attenuators.
Like if you don't wanna use the onboard modulation,
you can map external to whatever.
You have two CV inputs with attenuators.
The bottom knobs K1K2, you can assign to things
or multiple things like macro knobs basically.
So you can tweak things with those.
Then the middle knob is what selects things
on the menu screen.
- Oh, that's cool.
- Yeah, you scroll with that and then you push in to select.
- Cool.
- Kind of like braids.
- Yeah.
- It reminds me a lot of braids.
Like everything is pretty much like one level deep
or pretty close to it.
- Yeah, it's a lot of functionality packed in there.
I see you have two and before we started recording,
you mentioned something about alternative firmware.
- Yeah, they are releasing,
I don't wanna call it alternative firmware.
- But you should because that's what I said.
- But it kind of is.
You know what I mean?
(laughing)
'Cause it's essentially the same firmware
but it will contain different instruments
and sound selection and things like that.
But like the one is all full of like video game sounds
and like instruments inspired from like, you know,
Atari stuff, things like that.
- Oh, that's cool.
- And sounds interesting, yeah.
- I am sitting here staring at this over stare
modular channel, which I think we would be fucked up
to not mention 'cause holy shit does it sound good.
It makes me feel some type of way.
Some type of way.
- So you're pretty fired up about this.
- So much so though, I wasn't sure
I was even gonna talk about it
because I could probably just sit here and like,
just what's the word?
- Gosh.
- Gosh, thank you.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, I could definitely gush
about the overstayer modular channel.
- For our listeners, why don't you give them
like a quick executive summary or elevator pitch
for what you're talking about?
- Well, I wouldn't recommend it to everyone.
That's for sure.
It's definitely a very specialized thing.
You know what I mean?
Like it does what it does and it does it very fucking well.
But if you're not like obsessed with fine-tuning
your distortion, you're probably not gonna give
a flying fuck about it.
It's gonna sound like your analog heat
or whatever VST you use for distortion.
You know what I mean?
- Yeah.
- And I hate to sound pretentious about it,
but I think it's earned it here.
You know, the high praise.
I like distortion.
You know what I mean?
It's, this thing is by far the best thing
I've ever used for distortion.
- Yeah, you know, it's--
- But it's not just a raw distortion pedal.
It's not your DS1.
It's not just like, if someone's listening to us going like,
oh, it's distortion, I know what distortion is.
There's a drive and you turn that knob up.
- There is, it does have a drive knob.
- But that's not what is making this exceptional.
- What makes this exceptional is black magic.
(laughing)
- Yeah.
- The fact that-- - Fear, satanic,
ritualistic Cosmo juice has been injected into this box.
- Every one of those switches evokes a different demon.
- It does.
- Yeah, yeah.
- They're hardwired to passages from the Necronomicon.
Beelzebub himself might reside in there.
Not sure.
- No, I, it's, I don't know what makes it sound so good.
I don't fucking know circuitry.
You know what I mean?
If I was an engineer, I would probably splooge over
what components are in this thing and you know,
what Terzo has been able to create.
I just know that it sounds like
shit that is in my imagination.
- Just what you were explaining before we started recording.
I mean, you've got this sort of path that goes from
filter to EQ.
- Oh, you want me to get into like the components of it?
- Maybe not necessarily get into it because obviously
if you do, I can see your eyes and your eyes.
(laughing)
Like I don't, I don't think we have enough time
for you to get everything.
- But like if you just go down the section of it.
- A little bit of a breakdown, yeah.
- It's, it goes from like left to right.
Like the first section is your preamp selection.
And then it has like where things are going.
You know, it's all like tucked there on the left-hand side.
Like is it going through the EQ, the compressor,
the saturator?
Next section is the filter, section after that is your EQ.
Then it goes to compressor and drive.
And then lastly always the right is your mixer.
So you can fine tune, you know, your dry or your EQ mix
or your compressor and your saturation mix.
And it makes sense.
The way everything is laid out to me at least,
you know what I mean?
Like I, it has a manual.
I haven't looked at it.
I've just kind of been feeling it out since I've gotten it.
- It's one of those things where if somebody was like,
"Oh, you can only have a computer to make music,
but you can have this thing."
I'd be like, "Okay."
(laughing)
- That was exactly my logic.
You know what I mean?
Like I was like, if I had one big dick outboard processor unit,
what would it be?
And I spent a lot of time researching them.
I wanted onboard filtering compression with saturation.
There's a lot of shit out there that is one
or the other or two and not all three.
This thing nailed it.
It had everything that I wanted in it.
And even like some of the other overstaired devices,
you know, they're like known for being good at one thing,
not necessarily having the functions of the other.
And you have to get like two units, you know what I mean?
This was everything all in one.
So even though it was expensive and it's large,
it's multiple devices in under one hood basically.
You know what I mean?
- Stereo too.
- And it's stereo, yeah.
Yeah, it just hit like everything on my checklist
that I was looking for.
So I decided I would go for this one over some
of the other stuff that I was checking out originally.
- I mean, even before we started recording,
we were talking about that thing of like,
you were able to just shape the same input signal
in a million different ways
and just create completely different things.
- If you got the ear for it, you know what I mean?
- Yeah, it's true.
- Some people would hear it and just be like,
okay, that just sounds a little different.
Like distorted now, you know what I mean?
Or if they don't know, it's changed at all.
You know, if you got the ear for dirt and grime
and you like fucking shit up.
- Which audio bias?
- All three of us do.
- Which we do, yeah.
(laughing)
- Yeah, it's like infinite sweet spots.
- Yeah.
- But the biggest selling point of all,
Turdzo gives you the option of a black panel if you want.
- Which is fucking beautiful.
- Yeah, this is aesthetically astounding, yeah.
- Yeah, that was real happy when I found out
I had the option to do that.
It was like an unspoken option too.
I just noticed somebody said it on a forum somewhere like,
oh yeah, I was talking to Jeff about it,
blah, blah, blah, and then he mentioned it,
like I could get it in black.
And I was just like, holy shit.
So when I ordered one, I was just like,
by the way, is it possible to get this in black?
And the, I forget her name,
but she was like, the sales rep basically.
She was like, oh yeah, you can get a black panel for it.
And I was like, sold, matches everything else.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
But yeah, it's like three different saturation circuits,
I guess you could say.
But at the same time, you can also achieve saturation
through just the compressor or through the preamps
or through the EQ.
So there's so many different ways to achieve saturation
and I've yet to find a way that sounds bad,
if that makes any sense.
It doesn't sound like you're pushing a cheap component
to the point where it's breaking down type of clipping.
It all sounds like you're filling up the space of like,
that's just begging to be filled.
Do you know what I mean?
I don't know, like everything sounds like it can handle
you pushing it to the max if you want.
I feel weird talking about it
'cause I feel like it's like a secret weapon type of thing.
You know what I mean?
But at the same time,
I just like coming up with weird ways to distort stuff.
And I don't necessarily enjoy sharing those processes.
You know what I mean?
It's like it becomes your own, you know,
once you discover it.
This thing almost feels like cheating to me.
You know what I mean?
In some ways, just like,
I've come up with so many methods over the years
of like creating complex distortion chains, you know?
And this thing, I can dial that in with a few knob twists,
you know, the type of sound that I've spent fucking years
trying to develop or think up, you know, or sound.
You're dumping through like a million hoops to get to it.
And so now it feels like this is too easy.
It's very rewarding.
Yeah, I know.
I'm a mass kiss though.
I feel like if I'm not struggling,
then I'm not doing it right, you know?
So even with all the methods that I come up with
to fuck shit up, a lot of it doesn't hit
where my imagination is.
You know, this thing gets me closer
than any single device ever has.
I'll say that much.
So yeah, props to Turdo for tapping into my mind somehow
and making it manifest itself as a single box
that now sits on my desk.
- And luckily in some ways like that's a,
it's a pretty steep barrier to entry there.
Nobody's gonna get one of those on a whim.
- Exactly.
- Like it's not a pedal.
- I might shit talk like the analog heat, you know what I mean?
But at the same time that box probably does exactly
what a lot of people need.
- Yeah, sure.
- This would probably be insanely overkill for most people.
In fact, as I sat there and tweaked it,
I'm sitting there wondering like,
who the fuck else wants this?
You know what I mean?
It's like weird, it was like me.
Like I'm surprised that Turdo made something
that can get so extreme.
- It's like you in Tarmred, that's it.
- Yeah.
In fact, like yeah, like I've stumbled across
like Tarmred type timbers on this thing.
You know what I mean?
And I've thought that to myself like,
you know, he would probably love this thing.
I think it's the filters before the saturation circuit
that comes across that.
Like Tarmred has always had that like squeegee filter,
you know, pre saturation sound going on,
which I've always loved.
Yeah.
The filters are MS20 based and they just,
they can really scream if you want them to.
- Well, unfortunately now the, your secret's out.
- Cats out the bag.
Well, I'm not the first person to have one.
I'm pretty sure Richard Devine has one
and he's shown it off if I recall.
- He also has a drum sequencer with the black keys.
- Yeah, I don't know how the fuck he got black keys.
Mine does not have black keys
and I did not see an option at black keys, but.
- Well, sorry we made you talk about this.
- Yeah.
- Do you feel better like getting off your chest?
- A little, a little.
- Do you want to go to pizza?
- To the entity receiving this message,
you have been granted temporary access to the pizza realm
ending any outstanding credits.
Please make your topping choices known.
(soft music)
- It's squat before entering.
We won't tolerate much here.
(soft music)
(dramatic music)
(whoosh)